---
layout: post
title: Test Post
---

Key mapping
===========

It is the process of mapping a sequence of keystrokes to mean a different, usually complex sequence of keystrokes.
Except for the <F1> key, other function keys are not mapped by default in Vim and they are good candidates for key mapping.

Issue the following to create our first key map

:map <F2> GoDate:

The above command maps the F2 function key to the following steps of instructions

1. Go the end of the file (G)
2. Insert a blank line below the end of the file and go to insert mode (o)
3. Type the text Date:

Let's expand on the previous command and let the vim insert the datetime string after the Date: text.

:map <F2> GoDate:<Esc>"=strftime("%c")<CR>pa

The special keys are enclosed in key notation <>. "= is a special register called expression register.
Expression register is special in the sense that you cannot put text in to it. Here "= is typed right after
the escape key and because of the special nature of the expression, vim switches to the command line mode ready 
to accept any expression - in this case our expression is strftime("%c"), a function to retrieve the formatted date and time.
Next enter button instructs vim to execute the previous expression.The p command tells vim to put the just executed expression string and the 
a command moves to the insert mode.

So far so good, you can press <F2> in normal mode and can append the date to the end of the file. But it will not work in insert mode.
 :map, thus maps the key sequences in normal mode. For the above command to work in insert mode you 
have to use :imap.

:imap <F2> <Esc>GoDate:<Esc>"=strftime("%c")<CR>pa

:map key bindings will work in normal, visual, and operator pending mode. An operator character such as d or y in vim expects a motion command after it. 
When you type the operator command and then wait for typing the motion command, you are in operator pending mode, Phew. :map! works in insert and command line modes while 
:vmap, :nmap, :imap, :cmap, and :omap works in visual, normal, insert, command-line, and operator pending modes respectively. 


The result of the mapping (right hand expression in the map command) is inspected for other mappings on it. Let's examine what it does mean.

1. Let's map Q (go to ex command mode by default) to  :map Q :echo "ex gone"<CR> so that whenever Q is pressed we are greeted with a message(no double meaning intended)
2. Hmm after sometime we need our ex command back let's map it to eq. :map eQ Q
3. Now whenever Q or eQ are used in normal mode we are greeted with that annoying message and no ex command yet
4. What happens when we press eQ is, vim will retrieve the mapping on it and it is Q so it will inspect Q to see further mapping. We have already defined in step 1 that
Q whould print that annoying message and vim do that.

We need a way to tell vim that we dont need to inspect the mapping further in that case. :noremap family of commands do exactly what we need here. Our solution in this
case is simple. :noremap eQ Q

:noremap is applicable in normal, visual, and operator pending modes.:vnoremap, :nnoremap, :inoremap, onoremap, and cnoremap are applicable to visual, normal, insert, operator pending,
and command line modes respectively. :noremap! is applicable in insert and command line modes.

As a mapping will be inspected for further mappings, it opens the ways to recursively map the command to itself by appending the mapped command to the end of mapping.

To remove a key mapping use :unmap and its other mode variations.:unmap and its variations accept a single argument, the sequence of keys to unmap. :mapclear and its variants could be used 
for clearing all the mappings in the respective modes.

It is not possible to put comments right after the mapping as comments start character(") will be considered as part of the mapping. Fortunately vim allows to follow the 
mapping by another command provided both are separated by a pipe (|) or bar (in vim's vocabulary) character. So comments can be placed as shown below.

:map <Space> W|     " Use spacebar to move forward a word

One aspect of mapping that is omitted from this post is its recursive nature.
To make a key do nothing, map it to <Nop> 

Commands
========
It is possible to define custom commands in vim.
To define a command pass the command name and command body to the :command command. User defined commands must start with a capital character and the underscore cannot be used as also the command names :X, :Next, and :Print.
To list the custom commands pass no arguments to :command
:command DeleteFirst 1delete
Now :DeleteFirst delete the first sentence

Command line completion and abbreviation supports will be automatically available for the custom defined commands. 